# Social-Network-Analysis

Introduction and Background 
Social Media’s presence is ubiquitous today. Its extent can be realised with Facebook’s 1.55 billion monthly active users. As Social Media grew from its embryonic state in 2004, it gradually transformed into an communication platform on which governance, news, protest and friendship initiated and sustained. Around the world, social media consistently played a major role from natural disasters to election campaigns. As many political candidates started using social media to mobilize and influence voters, the social media companies also started to realize the opportunities of using data created in this communication platform to predict and understand the outcome of election campaign. With less than a year remaining for the US Presidential Election 2016, Election campaigns are in full swing and yet again social media is poised to become a game changer. Social Media’s major role came into effect during Obama’s 2008 presidential victory, It was not a surprise that one of Obama’s key strategist was  Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes. Even in current 2016 US presidential election social media’s role has been noteworthy. Twitter rolled out special features like $cashtag to aid candidates in raising funds for election campaigns. Bernie Sanders who started the year 2015 with 0 followers in twitter has almost # of followers # number greater than Hillary clinton. Social media’s excessive use as a part these campaign strategy is due to the fact that it is able to reach a variety of audience and get the attention of the millennials. 

Objective
The impact of social media in elections has been studied extensively. Our objective here is to study the social network of the two prominent election candidates - Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump. The main aim of the paper is to understand the reach of Hillary clinton and Donald J. Trump among twitter users. 
